All right sort by heit was a fun problem to dive into.
We're going to be taking in a number array and some values.
Most of those will be positive but we'll have these negative ones when we want to do is you want to
sort the array numerically ignoring the negative ones we aren't the negative ones that stay in their
index pots they never move but the rest of the array gets sorted.
So 150 160 170 and then these were the original indexes of negative 1.
So we don't touch those and then 180 190 that that's our objective here.
I use filter and sort for this.
That's really your only hint.
But for the most part this is a pure logic logic array manipulation type algorithm.
All right so the way that I did this was I created a new array based off our input.
I filtered it where I ignored if there was a need of one.
And if it was me it was not equal a negative one.
I returned the value if it was I just left it there and I didn't filter anything.
Meaning that it just stays same.
Now I sorted it numerically for those values.
So we were only sorting and filtering the values that exists basically So we're ignoring the negative
one values in our new array.
Then I keep track of an index Val where this is for the original length of the array.
And here we just then if it's if our original value in that index was negative then we're going to overwrite
it with our current index value.
That's all that we had to do here.
So let's greenery and we'll just call this I call this array to an awful name.
But we're going to say our original array filter and then the the element that we're filtering on.
All right.
And in here what we basically want is an array that we want an array that we are not going to.
That's not going to have those negative ones functions.
So we're just going to check if x is not equal equal to negative one or element or rather it's just
my original I call it x.
If it's not equal legal name of one going to return that element.
So now that we've filtered our array to ignore all the negative ones.
Now what we want do is we want to go ahead and sort that array numerically and so we can just call this
one too.
And then here we're seeing turn.
Hey might this be or.
No one to try and do better with the naming as we're going on here so.
So we're going to sort those numerically from least the greatest.
So we filtered and sort sorted the values.
Next what we're going to do is create an index Vout initialize it to zero.
The reason for this is eventually all we're going to do is actually return the original array that we've
modified here but it hasn't been sorted yet.
And zoom out a little bit so we can see the full array the way that we're going to do that is we're
going to iterate through these index values the entire railhead of our original input
plus plus.
And we're going to have this issue which is where if AI is not exactly equal negative 1 mean it's not
one of those placeholders SWAT's what we want to do is we want to take Eva.
And we want to set that value equal to our array to value our filtered sorted array and go ahead and
pass in the index value because now we know which number to pass in and all we do here is just increment
index fell by one every iteration.
See index is not defined.
This is equal equals zero.
I just listen.
There.
And now we're done.
So basically the logic was first sort and filter all the numbers that are negative one right here.
After that keep track of an index value of reference to this where if the value in the original completed
array which we haven't sorted or filtered is not equal to the negative one then what we wanna do is
we want to overwrite that spot with the current sorted and filtered value and then increment by 1 so
that we can get it in the correct order.
That's pretty much it.
I think I found that this was a this is a type of algorithm I like in terms of that is not overly convoluted
but it does sort of you know there's multiple ways to solve it I guess is why I like about it.